---
layout: post
title:  "Basic Network Intrusions Training"
subtitle: "An Introduction To Responding to Cyber Intrusions"
date:   2024-09-17 13:43:59 -0400
categories: Training at the National Computer Forensics Institute
background: '/img/posts/NCFI_1.jpg'
---

 <p>This week I has lucky enough to attend the National Center of Computer Forensics in Hoover, AL for a second time. This week long course centered on basic network intrusion techniques and network incident mitigation methods.</p>

<h2 class="section-heading"> Purpose </h2>

<p>The Basic Network Intrusions Training course just wrapped up, and it was an eye-opening week-long experience packed with practical insight and hands-on learning. This is a detailed course designed for investigational purposes and supervisory staff and looks into network investigation techniques and incident mitigation. I received my first taste of Linus training at NCFI, which was both hands-on and technical. This course held a nice introduction to network intrusion investigations with nicely blended hands-on learning and instructor-led instruction.</p>

<!-- img src="/assets/img/NCFI.jpg" -->
<h2 class="section-heading"> Highlights </h2>

<p> One of the highlights was learning how to effectively respond to hacking incidents. The course offered practical exercises on using essential tools that are pivotal in these scenarios. We delved into the command line for efficient navigation and management of network systems, mastering crucial commands like netstat for connection monitoring and tcpdump for packet capture analysis. Wireshark proved invaluable for analyzing network traffic, helping us pinpoint unusual activity and potential breaches through its powerful filtering capabilities and protocol analysis features. We also explored Autopsy for digital forensics, allowing us to piece together evidence from network artifacts and conduct detailed timeline analysis of system events. FTK Imager was another key tool we used, providing comprehensive imaging of drives to ensure data integrity during investigations, particularly important for maintaining proper chain of custody in cybersecurity incidents.</p>

<p> We also utilized a variety of free open source tools for network forensics such as Volatility for memory analysis and malware detection, WinPmem for rapid memory acquisition in Windows environments, Kape for automated evidence collection and triage, Cedarpelta for advanced network traffic analysis, and others! The hands-on experience included creating detailed incident response playbooks, practicing proper evidence handling procedures, and learning to generate comprehensive forensic reports that would stand up to scrutiny in professional environments. We also covered advanced techniques like memory dump analysis, registry forensics, and malware basics. The integration of these tools into a cohesive incident response workflow was particularly helpful, showing how different tools can complement each other during complex investigations. </p>

<h2 class="section-heading"> Take Aways </h2>

<p> The blend of instructor-led discussions and hands-on practical exercises made complex topics like network topologies, connectivity, and incident management approachable. I am very happy that I started my preparations to take the Network+ Exam prior to attending this class. The training was delivered in a very easy to understand method but a basic understanding communication protocols is assumed. The group exercise at the end brought everything together, demonstrating how to apply our new knowledge in real-world scenarios. Overall, BNIT was a fantastic course for anyone looking to build a solid foundation in network investigations and response strategies.</p>


 
 <!-- <div class="reveal">
      <div class="slides">
        <section data-markdown="slides/TRAINING.md" data-separator="^---$" data-separator-vertical="^--$" data-background-image="slides/img/background.png"></section>
      </div> -->
 
 <!-- You’ll find this post in your `_posts` directory. Go ahead and edit it and re-build the site to see your changes. You can rebuild the site in many different ways, but the most common way is to run `jekyll serve`, which launches a web server and auto-regenerates your site when a file is updated. --> 

<!-- Jekyll requires blog post files to be named according to the following format: --> 

<!-- `YEAR-MONTH-DAY-title.MARKUP` --> 

<!-- Where `YEAR` is a four-digit number, `MONTH` and `DAY` are both two-digit numbers, and `MARKUP` is the file extension representing the format used in the file. After that, include the necessary front matter. Take a look at the source for this post to get an idea about how it works. --> 

<!-- Jekyll also offers powerful support for code snippets: --> 

<!-- Check out the [Jekyll docs][jekyll-docs] for more info on how to get the most out of Jekyll. File all bugs/feature requests at [Jekyll’s GitHub repo][jekyll-gh]. If you have questions, you can ask them on [Jekyll Talk][jekyll-talk]. --> 

<!-- [jekyll-docs]: https://jekyllrb.com/docs/home
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-talk]: https://talk.jekyllrb.com/ --> 
